# AWS_Samples



## IAM

1. IAM stands for Identity and Access Management, a service offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS) to secure resources.

2. It provides centralized control for AWS account access, with specific permissions for each user, group, or role.

3. IAM allows managing users, security credentials such as access keys and passwords, and permissions to control which resources users and applications can access.

4. It's a global service i.e. changes made will be propagated across all regions.

5. IAM allows for secure access to AWS services and resources through HTTPS use and digital signatures. 

6. It also allows for multi-factor authentication for higher level security. 

7. You can use IAM to delegate permissions, allowing specified users to manage AWS resources.

8. IAM supports identity federation for delegated access to the AWS Management Console or AWS APIs.

9. IAM also provides tools to track user activity for resource and security auditing.

10. It is free to use and comes integrated into all AWS services. 

11. IAM lets you adopt the principle of least privilege, granting only necessary access for users to accomplish their jobs.

12. IAM policies determine what actions are allowed or denied. Policies can be attached to users, groups, or roles.

13. IAM roles are a secure method to grant permissions to entities that you trust. 

14. IAM helps companies meet compliance requirements by enforcing strict user and resource management policies.

## SNS

1. SNS stands for Simple Notification Service. It is a fully managed pub/sub messaging service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS).

2. It enables the decoupling or separating of microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications, thus enhancing the capability of these systems.

3. SNS delivers messages instantly to subscribing endpoints.

4. It enables you to send individual messages or "fanout" messages to a large number of recipients.

5. It is flexible and can deliver messages to email, mobile devices (SMS, push), Amazon SQS queues, or any HTTP endpoint.

6. SNS supports multiple protocols including Amazon SQS, HTTP/S, email, SMS, Lambda, and mobile push notifications.

7. It allows automatic scaling of applications by delivering messages to multiple SQS queues simultaneously.

8. SNS simplifies the management of messaging applications by offloading the administrative burden and heavy lifting tasks.

9. It ensures message delivery with redundancy across multiple regions and availability zones.

10. SNS provides robust security and privacy by encrypting sensitive data at rest and in transit.

11. It also supports access control policies, and AWS Identity and Access Management for user and resource security.

12. With SNS, you can filter messages based on message attributes so that subscribers receive only the messages of interest.

13. SNS supports the ability to fan out notifications to end users via mobile push, SMS, and email which can be leveraged in multi-channel marketing strategies.

14. It is cost-effective as you only pay for what you use. You don’t need to pay any up-front commitments or fixed expenses. 

15. For developers building applications, SNS provides APIs and an easy-to-use management console.

## SQS

1. SQS stands for Simple Queue Service.

2. It is a web service offered by AWS that provides scalable message queuing for microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications.

3. SQS enables you to decouple and scale microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications.

4. It can send, store, and receive messages between software components at any volume, without losing messages or requiring other services to be always available.

5. It supports two types of message queues – Standard Queues for maximum throughput and FIFO queues to ensure the order of processing.

6. SQS can be integrated with all other services provided by AWS, allowing users to queue and dequeue data generated by the other AWS infrastructure.

7. SQS offers a reliable, secure, highly scalable, hosted queue for storing messages that travel between computers.

8. Amazon SQS moves data between distributed application components and helps you decouple these components.

9. It comes with full managed message queues, eliminating the complexity and overhead associated with managing and operating message-oriented middleware.

10. SQS automatically encrypts all your messages using AWS owned CMK (Customer Master Keys) by default.

11. SQS makes it simple and cost-effective to decouple and coordinate the components of a cloud application.

## Authors and acknowledgment
Show your appreciation to those who have contributed to the project.

## License
For open source projects, say how it is licensed.

## Project status
If you have run out of energy or time for your project, put a note at the top of the README saying that development has slowed down or stopped completely. Someone may choose to fork your project or volunteer to step in as a maintainer or owner, allowing your project to keep going. You can also make an explicit request for maintainers.
